README.md, before:

# jsOnlyLightbox v0.5 
#### Responsive Lightbox written in  plain JavaScript

## Features

- no jQuery needed, plain JavaScript
- Fully responsive
- Customizable Theme, SCSS-files included
- Small in Size (< 10Kb)
- CSS3-Animations & controls, however, loading GIFs and arrow images can be used
- Licensed under MIT, code is free for commercial &amp; personal use. However, it would be great if you send me an link of your websites using my lightbox so I can see it live in action and post some real-word examples here. I am also happy about backlinks & github-stars :) **The pictures included are NOT free to use!** Please  [contact me first](http://felixhagspiel.de/contact) if you want to use the them!
- IE8+ support:
- Visit me on [felixhagspiel.de](http://felixhagspiel.de)

Do not forget to add those lines inside your `<head></head>` if you want to support IE8:

		<!--[if lt IE 9]>
		    <script src="//cdnjs.cloudflare.com/ajax/libs/respond.js/1.4.2/respond.min.js" type="text/javascript"></script>
		<![endif]-->

## Download

Fork or [download at jslightbox.felixhagspiel.de](http://jslightbox.felixhagspiel.de/). The lightbox is still in development mode, so please post any issues and bugs here.

## Demo

You can watch it live at [jslightbox.felixhagspiel.de](http://jslightbox.felixhagspiel.de/) or on [felixhagspiel.de](http://felixhagspiel.de/)

## Usage

Add the CSS-File to the head of your html-file:
	
	<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/lightbox.css">

Add this before the closing body tag:

	<script src="lightbox.min.js" type="text/javascript"></script>
	<script>
		var lightbox = new Lightbox();
	 	lightbox.load();
	</script>

You just need to add the attribute `data-jslghtbx` to all the images you want to show in the lightbox:

	<img class="jslghtbx-thmb" src="img/lightbox/1.jpg" alt="" data-jslghtbx>

Note: The CSS-class `jslghtbx-thmb` is optional. You can use your own styling if you want.

You can pass a link of a different image via the `data-jslghtbx` attribute, which then will be loaded on click. Use this if you want to use small sized pictures for the thumbnails to reduce traffic:

	<img class="jslghtbx-thmb" src="img/lightbox/1.jpg" alt="" data-jslghtbx="img/1-big.jpg">

If you want to group images to structure your content, use the `data-jslghtbx-group` attribute. You can have multiple groups on one page. This is also helpful when you dont want to use thumbnails, just hide the thumbnails via CSS:

	<img class="jslghtbx-thmb" src="img/lightbox/3-small.jpg" alt="" data-jslghtbx="img/3-big.jpg" data-jslghtbx-group="mygroup1">
	<img class="jslghtbx-thmb" src="img/lightbox/4-small.jpg" alt="" data-jslghtbx="img/4-big.jpg" data-jslghtbx-group="mygroup1">
	<img class="jslghtbx-thmb" src="img/lightbox/6-small.jpg" alt="" data-jslghtbx="img/6-big.jpg" data-jslghtbx-group="mygroup1">
	<img class="jslghtbx-thmb" src="img/lightbox/7-small.jpg" alt="" data-jslghtbx="img/7-big.jpg" data-jslghtbx-group="mygroup1">


	<img class="jslghtbx-thmb" src="img/lightbox/8-small.jpg" alt="" data-jslghtbx="img/1-big.jpg" data-jslghtbx-group="mygroup2">
	<img class="jslghtbx-thmb" src="img/lightbox/9-small.jpg" alt="" data-jslghtbx="img/1-big.jpg" data-jslghtbx-group="mygroup2">
	<img class="jslghtbx-thmb" src="img/lightbox/10-small.jpg" alt="" data-jslghtbx="img/1-big.jpg" data-jslghtbx-group="mygroup2">

The default control-arrows will be loaded when using groups. You can also use your own control-buttons by providing an ID via the options. For more detail look into the options section below.

If you want to use captions add the `data-jslghtbx-caption` attribute. You can also pass HTML:
	
	<img class="jslghtbx-thmb" src="img/lightbox/2.jpg" alt="" data-jslghtbx data-jslghtbx-caption="This is my <a href='http://abc.de'>caption.</a>">

## CSS Animations

When the lightbox is opened first, the image inside gets the class `jslghtbx-animate-init`. This is useful if you want to animate opacity. 
If you are showing multiple images inside the box via the group-param, the classes `jslghtbx-animating-next` and `jslghtbx-animating-prev` are added and removed, each for half of the durationtime given by the option `animation` (defaults to 400 milliseconds).
The box receives the class `jslghtbx-active` when opened, and the wrapper gets `jslghtbx-wrapper-active` when all calculations are done. Feel free to edit those styles.

## Options

###	`{responsive: bool}` 
_Default: true_

If set to true, the image will be resized according to the viewport on resize-events.

###	`{preload: bool}`
_Default: true_

If set to true, the previous and the next image of the currently shown image will be preloaded if not already in cache.

###	`{loadingAnimation: string || number || boolean}`
_Default: 200_

If set to true, an animation will be rendered until the image is loaded. Alternatively you can pass milliseconds as number, which defines the interval the `span`-elements inside the `jslghtbx-loading-animation`-container get the class `jslghtbx-active` (the default interval is 200ms). You can use this to apply your own styling via CSS. The animation is using CSS3, so it will not work in IE8/9. You can also pass a link to an GIF-image, which then replaces the animation. This is disabled for IE8 due to bugs with transparent backgrounds and performance issues. If set to false, no animation is shown.

Note: The animations get an 500ms delay until they start, so they won`t pop up on fast connections. Also, you should check for CSS3-support and set the animation-option accordingly.

###	`{animElCount: number}`
_Default: 4_

This sets the number of animated `span` tags which are appended to the `jslghtbx-loading-animation` container. Must be higher than 1.

###	`{carousel: bool}`
_Default: true_

If set to true, you can infinitely loop through all the images by clicking the next/prev button or calling the `next()` / `prev()`-functions.  

###	`{captions: bool}`
_Default: true_

If set to true, the caption text inside the `data-jslghtbx-caption` attribute will be shown. Note that the text may not be visible completely if it is very long. Feel free to style the caption class `.jslghtbx-caption` to your needs.

###	`{closeOnClick: bool}`
_Default: true_

If set to true, the lightbox will close on click anywhere inside the viewport, not just by clicking on the close-button. 

Note: May not work in IE8.

###	`{nextOnClick: bool}`
_Default: true_

If set to true, a click on the current image shows the next image.

###	`{hideOverflow: bool}`
_Default: true_

Hides scrollbars when lightbox is opened.

###	`{hideCloseBtn: bool}`
_Default: false_

Hides the closebutton inside the lightbox.

###	`{dimensions: bool}`
_Default: true_

Images will be resized to a maximum of the original dimensions. If set to false, images are always scaled to fullscreen.

###	`{controls: bool}`
_Default: true_

Show or hide the default next- & prev-buttons.

###	`{nextImg: 'path/to/image'}`
Here you can pass the path to an alternative next-button image. By default the arrows are rendered via CSS. If you want to use images make sure to apply custom styling for smaller viewports via the CSS-Class `jslghtbx-next`.

###	`{prevImg: 'path/to/image'}`
Here you can pass the path to an alternative prev-button image. By default the arrows are rendered via CSS. If you want to use images make sure to apply custom styling for smaller viewports via the CSS-Class `jslghtbx-prev`.

###	`{boxId: 'elementId'}`
Here you can pass an ID if you want to use your own box-element. Images will be appended to that element then. The element will receive a class "jslghtbx-active" when opened, so style this class properly (you need at least to remove visibility by default and add it on active). If you want it to look like the default-box, just add the class "jslghtbx" to the box-element.

###	`{animation: number | bool}`
_Default: 400_

This options defines wether the next/prev-switch should be animated. If you pass an integer-value, it defines the milliseconds for the animation. Passing `false` disables the animation. Note that all animations are done via CSS3-transitions, so if you want to alter them you have to do it via the CSS-file. 

###	`{maxImgSize: float}`
_Default: 0.8_

This is the modifier which is used to reduce the images size when it's full size won't fit in the viewport. Maximum value is 1 for 100%.

#### Callbacks

###	`{onopen: function}`
Function that is executed when the lightbox is opened.

###	`{onclose: function}`
Function that is executed when the lightbox is closed.

###	`{onresize: function}`
Function that is executed when the lightbox is resized.

###	`{onload: function}`
Function that is executed once the current image is loaded.

###	`{onloaderror: function(event)}`
Function that is executed when the current image fails to load. You can add your handlers here to display a warning or call other functions. The callback receives an event which is `"prev"` if the prev button was clicked, `"next"` if the next button was clicked or `false` for all other ways of opening the lightbox. This allows you to handle errors like this:

		if(event === 'prev')
			lightbox.prev()
		else
			lightbox.next()	

## Methods

### `lightbox.load(options)`

The init-function. Here you can pass your option-object. Has to be called once on the box-object. If you dont pass options, the defaults are loaded. A full call may look like this:

Example:

	/* Default options */
	var options = {
		boxId: 				'testID',
		dimensions: 		true,
		captions: 			true,
		prevImg: 			false,
		nextImg: 			false,
		hideCloseBtn: 		false,
		closeOnClick: 		true,
		loadingAnimation: 	200,
		animElCount: 		4,
		preload: 			true,
		carousel: 			true,
		animation: 			400,
		nextOnClick: 		true,
		responsive: 		true,
		// callbacks
		onopen: function(){
			// ...
		},
		onclose: function(){
			// ...
		},
		onload: function(){
			// ...
		},
		onresize: function(){
			// ...
		}
	};
	var lightbox = new Lightbox();
	lightbox.load(options);

### `lightbox.open(src-link || image, groupName)`
You can open the box manually via JS. There are multiple ways to tell the box which image to load. 

1. Via link:

		document.getElementById('open-lightbox').addEventListener('click',function(){
			lightbox.open('../img/lightbox/1.jpg');
		});

2. Via image object:

		var myImg = document.getElementById('myImg');
		document.getElementById('open-lightbox').addEventListener('click',function(){
			lightbox.open(myImg);
		});

3. Via group name, which shows the first image of the group. The first parameter must be false:

		document.getElementById('open-lightbox').addEventListener('click',function(){
			lightbox.open(false,'myGroup');
		});

### `lightbox.next()`
Shows the next image of current group

### `lightbox.prev()`
Shows the previous image of current group

### `lightbox.close()`
Closes the lightbox.

### `lightbox.resize()`
Repositions the image in the lightbox. Is called on every resize-event unless you set the `responsive`-option to false.

Commit message:

added event to onload-cb

README.md, after:

# jsOnlyLightbox v0.5 
#### Responsive Lightbox written in  plain JavaScript

## Features

- no jQuery needed, plain JavaScript
- Fully responsive
- Customizable Theme, SCSS-files included
- Small in Size (< 10Kb)
- CSS3-Animations & controls, however, loading GIFs and arrow images can be used
- Licensed under MIT, code is free for commercial &amp; personal use. However, it would be great if you send me an link of your websites using my lightbox so I can see it live in action and post some real-word examples here. I am also happy about backlinks & github-stars :) **The pictures included are NOT free to use!** Please  [contact me first](http://felixhagspiel.de/contact) if you want to use the them!
- IE8+ support:
- Visit me on [felixhagspiel.de](http://felixhagspiel.de)

Do not forget to add those lines inside your `<head></head>` if you want to support IE8:

		<!--[if lt IE 9]>
		    <script src="//cdnjs.cloudflare.com/ajax/libs/respond.js/1.4.2/respond.min.js" type="text/javascript"></script>
		<![endif]-->

## Download

Fork or [download at jslightbox.felixhagspiel.de](http://jslightbox.felixhagspiel.de/). The lightbox is still in development mode, so please post any issues and bugs here.

## Demo

You can watch it live at [jslightbox.felixhagspiel.de](http://jslightbox.felixhagspiel.de/) or on [felixhagspiel.de](http://felixhagspiel.de/)

## Usage

Add the CSS-File to the head of your html-file:
	
	<link rel="stylesheet" href="css/lightbox.css">

Add this before the closing body tag:

	<script src="lightbox.min.js" type="text/javascript"></script>
	<script>
		var lightbox = new Lightbox();
	 	lightbox.load();
	</script>

You just need to add the attribute `data-jslghtbx` to all the images you want to show in the lightbox:

	<img class="jslghtbx-thmb" src="img/lightbox/1.jpg" alt="" data-jslghtbx>

Note: The CSS-class `jslghtbx-thmb` is optional. You can use your own styling if you want.

You can pass a link of a different image via the `data-jslghtbx` attribute, which then will be loaded on click. Use this if you want to use small sized pictures for the thumbnails to reduce traffic:

	<img class="jslghtbx-thmb" src="img/lightbox/1.jpg" alt="" data-jslghtbx="img/1-big.jpg">

If you want to group images to structure your content, use the `data-jslghtbx-group` attribute. You can have multiple groups on one page. This is also helpful when you dont want to use thumbnails, just hide the thumbnails via CSS:

	<img class="jslghtbx-thmb" src="img/lightbox/3-small.jpg" alt="" data-jslghtbx="img/3-big.jpg" data-jslghtbx-group="mygroup1">
	<img class="jslghtbx-thmb" src="img/lightbox/4-small.jpg" alt="" data-jslghtbx="img/4-big.jpg" data-jslghtbx-group="mygroup1">
	<img class="jslghtbx-thmb" src="img/lightbox/6-small.jpg" alt="" data-jslghtbx="img/6-big.jpg" data-jslghtbx-group="mygroup1">
	<img class="jslghtbx-thmb" src="img/lightbox/7-small.jpg" alt="" data-jslghtbx="img/7-big.jpg" data-jslghtbx-group="mygroup1">


	<img class="jslghtbx-thmb" src="img/lightbox/8-small.jpg" alt="" data-jslghtbx="img/1-big.jpg" data-jslghtbx-group="mygroup2">
	<img class="jslghtbx-thmb" src="img/lightbox/9-small.jpg" alt="" data-jslghtbx="img/1-big.jpg" data-jslghtbx-group="mygroup2">
	<img class="jslghtbx-thmb" src="img/lightbox/10-small.jpg" alt="" data-jslghtbx="img/1-big.jpg" data-jslghtbx-group="mygroup2">

The default control-arrows will be loaded when using groups. You can also use your own control-buttons by providing an ID via the options. For more detail look into the options section below.

If you want to use captions add the `data-jslghtbx-caption` attribute. You can also pass HTML:
	
	<img class="jslghtbx-thmb" src="img/lightbox/2.jpg" alt="" data-jslghtbx data-jslghtbx-caption="This is my <a href='http://abc.de'>caption.</a>">

## CSS Animations

When the lightbox is opened first, the image inside gets the class `jslghtbx-animate-init`. This is useful if you want to animate opacity. 
If you are showing multiple images inside the box via the group-param, the classes `jslghtbx-animating-next` and `jslghtbx-animating-prev` are added and removed, each for half of the durationtime given by the option `animation` (defaults to 400 milliseconds).
The box receives the class `jslghtbx-active` when opened, and the wrapper gets `jslghtbx-wrapper-active` when all calculations are done. Feel free to edit those styles.

## Options

###	`{responsive: bool}` 
_Default: true_

If set to true, the image will be resized according to the viewport on resize-events.

###	`{preload: bool}`
_Default: true_

If set to true, the previous and the next image of the currently shown image will be preloaded if not already in cache.

###	`{loadingAnimation: string || number || boolean}`
_Default: 200_

If set to true, an animation will be rendered until the image is loaded. Alternatively you can pass milliseconds as number, which defines the interval the `span`-elements inside the `jslghtbx-loading-animation`-container get the class `jslghtbx-active` (the default interval is 200ms). You can use this to apply your own styling via CSS. The animation is using CSS3, so it will not work in IE8/9. You can also pass a link to an GIF-image, which then replaces the animation. This is disabled for IE8 due to bugs with transparent backgrounds and performance issues. If set to false, no animation is shown.

Note: The animations get an 500ms delay until they start, so they won`t pop up on fast connections. Also, you should check for CSS3-support and set the animation-option accordingly.

###	`{animElCount: number}`
_Default: 4_

This sets the number of animated `span` tags which are appended to the `jslghtbx-loading-animation` container. Must be higher than 1.

###	`{carousel: bool}`
_Default: true_

If set to true, you can infinitely loop through all the images by clicking the next/prev button or calling the `next()` / `prev()`-functions.  

###	`{captions: bool}`
_Default: true_

If set to true, the caption text inside the `data-jslghtbx-caption` attribute will be shown. Note that the text may not be visible completely if it is very long. Feel free to style the caption class `.jslghtbx-caption` to your needs.

###	`{closeOnClick: bool}`
_Default: true_

If set to true, the lightbox will close on click anywhere inside the viewport, not just by clicking on the close-button. 

Note: May not work in IE8.

###	`{nextOnClick: bool}`
_Default: true_

If set to true, a click on the current image shows the next image.

###	`{hideOverflow: bool}`
_Default: true_

Hides scrollbars when lightbox is opened.

###	`{hideCloseBtn: bool}`
_Default: false_

Hides the closebutton inside the lightbox.

###	`{dimensions: bool}`
_Default: true_

Images will be resized to a maximum of the original dimensions. If set to false, images are always scaled to fullscreen.

###	`{controls: bool}`
_Default: true_

Show or hide the default next- & prev-buttons.

###	`{nextImg: 'path/to/image'}`
Here you can pass the path to an alternative next-button image. By default the arrows are rendered via CSS. If you want to use images make sure to apply custom styling for smaller viewports via the CSS-Class `jslghtbx-next`.

###	`{prevImg: 'path/to/image'}`
Here you can pass the path to an alternative prev-button image. By default the arrows are rendered via CSS. If you want to use images make sure to apply custom styling for smaller viewports via the CSS-Class `jslghtbx-prev`.

###	`{boxId: 'elementId'}`
Here you can pass an ID if you want to use your own box-element. Images will be appended to that element then. The element will receive a class "jslghtbx-active" when opened, so style this class properly (you need at least to remove visibility by default and add it on active). If you want it to look like the default-box, just add the class "jslghtbx" to the box-element.

###	`{animation: number | bool}`
_Default: 400_

This options defines wether the next/prev-switch should be animated. If you pass an integer-value, it defines the milliseconds for the animation. Passing `false` disables the animation. Note that all animations are done via CSS3-transitions, so if you want to alter them you have to do it via the CSS-file. 

###	`{maxImgSize: float}`
_Default: 0.8_

This is the modifier which is used to reduce the images size when it's full size won't fit in the viewport. Maximum value is 1 for 100%.

#### Callbacks

###	`{onopen: function}`
Function that is executed when the lightbox is opened.

###	`{onclose: function}`
Function that is executed when the lightbox is closed.

###	`{onresize: function}`
Function that is executed when the lightbox is resized.

###	`{onload: function(event)}`
Function that is executed once the current image is loaded. The callback receives an event which is `"prev"` if the prev button was clicked, `"next"` if the next button was clicked or `false` for all other ways of opening the lightbox.

###	`{onloaderror: function(event)}`
Function that is executed when the current image fails to load. You can add your handlers here to display a warning or call other functions. The callback receives an event which is `"prev"` if the prev button was clicked, `"next"` if the next button was clicked or `false` for all other ways of opening the lightbox. This allows you to handle errors like this:

		if(event === 'prev')
			lightbox.prev()
		else
			lightbox.next()	

## Methods

### `lightbox.load(options)`

The init-function. Here you can pass your option-object. Has to be called once on the box-object. If you dont pass options, the defaults are loaded. A full call may look like this:

Example:

	/* Default options */
	var options = {
		boxId: 				'testID',
		dimensions: 		true,
		captions: 			true,
		prevImg: 			false,
		nextImg: 			false,
		hideCloseBtn: 		false,
		closeOnClick: 		true,
		loadingAnimation: 	200,
		animElCount: 		4,
		preload: 			true,
		carousel: 			true,
		animation: 			400,
		nextOnClick: 		true,
		responsive: 		true,
		// callbacks
		onopen: function(){
			// ...
		},
		onclose: function(){
			// ...
		},
		onload: function(){
			// ...
		},
		onresize: function(){
			// ...
		}
	};
	var lightbox = new Lightbox();
	lightbox.load(options);

### `lightbox.open(src-link || image, groupName)`
You can open the box manually via JS. There are multiple ways to tell the box which image to load. 

1. Via link:

		document.getElementById('open-lightbox').addEventListener('click',function(){
			lightbox.open('../img/lightbox/1.jpg');
		});

2. Via image object:

		var myImg = document.getElementById('myImg');
		document.getElementById('open-lightbox').addEventListener('click',function(){
			lightbox.open(myImg);
		});

3. Via group name, which shows the first image of the group. The first parameter must be false:

		document.getElementById('open-lightbox').addEventListener('click',function(){
			lightbox.open(false,'myGroup');
		});

### `lightbox.next()`
Shows the next image of current group

### `lightbox.prev()`
Shows the previous image of current group

### `lightbox.close()`
Closes the lightbox.

### `lightbox.resize()`
Repositions the image in the lightbox. Is called on every resize-event unless you set the `responsive`-option to false.
